# DIABETES-ANALYSIS
Diabetes is a common chronic disease and poses a great threat to human health. The characteristic of diabetes is that the blood glucose is higher than the normal level, which is caused by defective insulin secretion or its impaired biological effects, or both (Lonappan et al., 2007). Diabetes can lead to chronic damage and dysfunction of various tissues, especially eyes, kidneys, heart, blood vessels and nerves (Krasteva et al., 2011). Diabetes can be divided into two categories, type 1 diabetes (T1D) and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Patients with type 1 diabetes are normally younger, mostly less than 30 years old. The typical clinical symptoms are increased thirst and frequent urination, high blood glucose levels (Iancu et al., 2008). This type of diabetes cannot be cured effectively with oral medications alone and the patients are required insulin therapy. Type 2 diabetes occurs more commonly in middle-aged and elderly people, which is often associated with the occurrence of obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, arteriosclerosis, and other diseases (Robertson et al., 2011).
With the development of living standards, diabetes is increasingly common in people’s daily life. Therefore, how to quickly and accurately diagnose and analyze diabetes is a topic worthy studying. In medicine, the diagnosis of diabetes is according to fasting blood glucose, glucose tolerance, and random blood glucose levels (Iancu et al., 2008; Cox and Edelman, 2009; American Diabetes Association, 2012). The earlier diagnosis is obtained, the much easier we can control it. Machine learning can help people make a preliminary judgment about diabetes mellitus according to their daily physical examination data, and it can serve as a reference for doctors (Lee and Kim, 2016; Alghamdi et al., 2017; Kavakiotis et al., 2017). For machine learning method, how to select the valid features and the correct classifier are the most important problems.
Recently, numerous algorithms are used to predict diabetes, including the traditional machine learning method (Kavakiotis et al., 2017), such as support vector machine (SVM), decision tree (DT), logistic regression and so on. Polat and Günes (2007) distinguished diabetes from normal people by using principal component analysis (PCA) and neuro fuzzy inference. Yue et al. (2008) used quantum particle swarm optimization (QPSO) algorithm and weighted least squares support vector machine (WLS-SVM) to predict type 2 diabetes Duygu and Esin (2011) proposed a system to predict diabetes, called LDA-MWSVM. In this system, the authors used Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) to reduce the dimensions and extract the features. In order to deal with the high dimensional datasets, Razavian et al. (2015) built prediction models based on logistic regression for different onsets of type 2 diabetes prediction. Georga et al. (2013) focused on the glucose, and used support vector regression (SVR) to predict diabetes, which is as a multivariate regression problem. Moreover, more and more studies used ensemble methods to improve the accuracy (Kavakiotis et al., 2017). Ozcift and Gulten (2011) proposed a newly ensemble approach, namely rotation forest, which combines 30 machine learning methods. Han et al. (2015) proposed a machine learning method, which changed the SVM prediction rules.
Machine learning methods are widely used in predicting diabetes, and they get preferable results. Decision tree is one of popular machine learning methods in medical field, which has grateful classification power. Random forest generates many decision trees. Neural network is a recently popular machine learning method, which has a better performance in many aspects. So in this study, we used decision tree, random forest (RF) and neural network to predict the diabetes.
